### Related Work (Scientific Basis) {#ssec:basis}

A recent survey of advances is QKD was presented in
@KumarGarhwalStateoftheArtSurvey2021, which also investigated other aspects of
quantum cryptography such as post-quantum cryptography and multiparty
communications protocols. Their article provides a review of existing protocols
in this field and discuss properties used in the development and
implementation. However, no steps are taken towards comparing the different
strategies on a measurable or theoretical level or simulating the different
protocols. In another study by Nurhadi and Syambas, some prominent QKD
protocols between 1984 and 2013 are compared in terms of their underlying
quantum principle, and some of these protocols (BB84, BBM92, and B92) are
further analyzed and compared  by way of simulation using QuVis
@NurhadiSyambasQuantumKey2018. This study provides no theoretical analysis of
the protocols and does not discus any developments beyond 2018.

Since 2018 a number of advances in the field of QKD has been made. In their
article from 2021, Zapatero et al. discus the most recent developments in the
field including both theoretical and experimental properties
@ZapateroEtAlAdvancesDeviceindependent2023. Their work also does not provide
any simulations but discusses different physical implementations of protocols.
Lastly, in an article from 2022, Nadlinger et al. provides an experimental
implementation of the device-independent Ekert protocol through which a 95,628
bit key was obtained from 1.5 million Bell pairs during eight hours
@NadlingerEtAlExperimentalQuantum2022.
