# 2024-05-14

Added the wiki with diary today, and made sure everything is git-managed to
prevent loss of work and ensure easier collaboration in the future. 

Worked on the introduction section and wrote on the background section here,
introducing QKD and some information on the history of this area. The Wikipedia
articles on the bell state and QKD where quite helpful to find some relevant
resources, as well as the article by Vazirani and Vidick.

---

Finished the background section draft for now. Thinking about the actual
research problem and question I want to work on. It is now time to really
review the literature in depth in order to nail down the question and the
method by which it can be answered. I see thee possible outcomes of this:

1. There are a number of diQKD protocols that I can work to implement in
   Qiskit and compare some property of them.
2. All current diQKD protocols are based on the same algorithm and only
   differ in their physical implementation, which I cannot investigate due
   to resource limitations. Instead, I can compare QKD protocols in general
   and implement these in Qiskit.
3. All current diQKD protocols are based on the same algorithm and only
   differ in their physical implementation, which I cannot investigate due
   to resource limitations. Instead, I can compare existing QKD protocols
   and implement some attacks on these in Qiskit.

The second and third option can also be combined so that I implement some
protocols as well as investigate attacks on them. In any case, I believe that
this will still turn out a fruitful project, even if it differs slightly from
what I originally set out to do.

The research problem as I wrote it down some months ago was:

> Evaluation and performance evaluation of protocols in diQKD implemented
> in Qiskit.

The two research questions I wrote down around the same time were:

- Which parameters for performance evaluation exist in Qiskit to compare
  protocols in diQKD?
- How does protocols in diQKD perform and compare along these parameters?
